1.Create Account 
2.IAM (Identity and Access Management)
3.VPC Virtual Private CLoud
4.Simple Storage Service 
5.Elastic Cloud Complete
6.RDS/ Dynamo DB
7.Simple Notification Services 
8.Cloud Watch Monitoring Services 
9.Elastic CLoud Balancing
10.Auto Scaling 
11.Routes 3 (DNS)
12.Lambdas Service Computing 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LKStwibxbR0&list=PLv2a_5pNAko2Jl4Ks7V428ttvy-Fj4NKU
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BDBvHOaaKHo&list=PLv2a_5pNAko0Mijc6mnv04xeOut443Wnk
Project Omega 
http://bit.ly/2guw5gY


1.Create Account : 
  For creating account We need to Credit card Or a Debit card and Put the detalils on form You will get a call for confirmation now You can acces your amazon console .

1.What is IAM. How to setup IAM and Five Fundamental.
  Identity and Access Management : We nned to set up the permission for group and User and Role wise What they can access or what they can not. 
  Before Start  Using the Your Amazon account you need to follow these 5 tips.
  1.Delete Your Root Access Keys 
  2.Activate MFA (Multifactor Authentication)
  3.Crete Yourself as a Individual User 
  4.Use Group to assign the permission
  5.Administraion Policies 


2.What is VPC.
  1.Amazon Global Infrastructure 
    a.Regions 
    b.Availability Zone 
    c.Data Center 	

  Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) enables you to launch AWS resources into a virtual network that you've defined. This virtual network closely resembles a traditional network that you'd operate in your own data center, with the benefits of using the scalable infrastructure of AWS.
  It's like a Google Drive We have seperate Storage to store  Our private data.
  In this We have Complete Access to our clousd.It Represent the Infrastructure for this access.  



3.Simple Storage Service S3.
A online storage that you can access from anywhere on almost any device.Amazon Simple Storage Service is storage for the Internet. It is designed to make web-scale computing easier for developers. Amazon S3 has a simple web services interface that you can use to store and retrieve any amount of data, at any time, from anywhere on the web.
 Bucket : Root Folder and Nested Folder We have Different Policies and Rules to access file.
 Pricing :  1. Standard Storag 2.Reduced Redundancy storage 3.Infrequent Acces. 4.Glacier 
 
 About Free Tier Storage : 1. We can get free 5 GB Storage. 

 Setting and  Changing : Object LifeCycle at Bucket Level 
 

4.What is EC2 Elastic Cloud Complete.
  Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) provides scalable computing capacity in the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud. Using Amazon EC2 eliminates your need to invest in hardware up front, so you can develop and deploy applications faster. You can use Amazon EC2 to launch as many or as few virtual servers as you need, configure security and networking, and manage storage. Amazon EC2 enables you to scale up or down to handle changes in requirements or spikes in popularity, reducing your need to forecast traffic.

  Features of Amazon EC2
  1.Amazon EC2 provides the following features:
  2.Virtual computing environments, known as instances
  3.Preconfigured templates for your instances, known as Amazon Machine Images (AMIs), that package the bits you need for your server (including the operating system and additional software)  
  4.Various configurations of CPU, memory, storage, and networking capacity for your instances, known as instance types
  5.Secure login information for your instances using key pairs (AWS stores the public key, and you store the private key in a secure place)
  6.Storage volumes for temporary data that's deleted when you stop or terminate your instance, known as instance store volumes
  7.Persistent storage volumes for your data using Amazon Elastic Block Store (Amazon EBS), known as Amazon EBS volumes
  8.Multiple physical locations for your resources, such as instances and Amazon EBS volumes, known as regions and Availability Zonee.
  9.A firewall that enables you to specify the protocols, ports, and source IP ranges that can reach your instances using security groups
  10.Static IPv4 addresses for dynamic cloud computing, known as Elastic IP addresses
  11.Metadata, known as tags, that you can create and assign to your Amazon EC2 resources
  12.Virtual networks you can create that are logically isolated from the rest of the AWS cloud, and that you can optionally connect to your own network, known as virtual private clouds (VPCs)


5.What is Internet gate Way.
  An internet gateway is a horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC component that allows communication between instances in your VPC and the internet. It therefore imposes no availability risks or bandwidth constraints on your network traffic.
  An internet gateway serves two purposes:
  A. to provide a target in your VPC route tables for internet-routable traffic, and
  B. to  perform network address translation (NAT) for instances that have been assigned public IPv4 addresses.

   An internet gateway supports IPv4 and IPv6 traffic. 

   To enable access to or from the internet for instances in a VPC subnet, you must do the following:
   1.Attach an internet gateway to your VPC.
   2.Ensure that your subnet's route table points to the internet gateway.
   3.Ensure that instances in your subnet have a globally unique IP address (public IPv4 address, Elastic IP address, or IPv6 address).
   4.Ensure that your network access control and security group rules allow the relevant traffic to flow to and from your instance.

6.What is Route Tables.
  1.A route table contains a set of rules, called routes, that are used to determine where network traffic is directed.
  2.Each subnet in your VPC must be associated with a route table; the table controls the routing for the subnet. 
  3.A subnet can only be associated with one route table at a time, 
  4.but you can associate multiple subnets with the same route table.

7.NACL Network Access Control Services.
  A network access control list (ACL) is an optional layer of security for your VPC that acts as a firewall for controlling traffic in and out of one or more subnets. You might set up network ACLs with rules similar to your security groups in order to add an additional layer of security to your VPC
  How to edit NACL Rules like Updating subnets and  IGW.

8.Subnets 
  If a subnet's traffic is routed to an internet gateway, the subnet is known as a public subnet.
  If a subnet doesn't have a route to the internet gateway, the subnet is known as a private subnet

8.RDS and Dynamo DB
  Here We have 2 Type of Database  SQL and NoSql for sql We mysql and Postgresql etc. and For NoSql Mongo and Cassandra and Oracle Nosql.
  Here Also We can get some free database. 

9.SNS : 
	Simple Notificaiotn Serivices. 

10.Different Type Of Storage and Pricing and Usability 

11.What Is AMI : Amazon Machine Image.
   Amazon Machine Image (AMI) is a special type of virtual appliance that is used to instantiate (create) a virtual machine within the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (""EC2""). It serves as the basic unit of deployment for services delivered using EC2.We can get different-2 configuration Images.

12.S3 Bucket Policies and Administration ans roles to the user what they can access.

13.ELB Elastic Cloud Balancing 

14.Auto Scaling 

15.Lamda (Service Computing )

